.TH man 3 "6 December 2021" "_shell man page"
.SH NAME
shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
bash [options] [file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The sh utility is a command language interpreter that shall
execute commands read from a command line string, the standard
input, or a specified file. The application shall ensure that the
commands to be executed are expressed in the language described
in Chapter 2, Shell Command Language.

Pathname expansion shall not fail due to the size of a file.

Shell input and output redirections have an implementation-
defined offset maximum that is established in the open file
description.
.SH OPERANDS
The following operands shall be supported:

       -         A single <hyphen-minus> shall be treated as the first
                        operand and then ignored. If both '-' and "--" are
			                 given as arguments, or if other operands precede the
					                  single <hyphen-minus>, the results are undefined.

							         argument  The positional parameters ($1, $2, and so on) shall be
								                  set to arguments, if any.

										         command_file
											                  The pathname of a file containing commands. If the
													                   pathname contains one or more <slash> characters, the
															                    implementation attempts to read that file; the file
																	                     need not be executable. If the pathname does not
																			                      contain a <slash> character:

																					                        *  The implementation shall attempt to read that file
																								                     from the current working directory; the file need
																										                          not be executable.

																													                    *  If the file is not in the current working
																															                         directory, the implementation may perform a search
																																		                      for an executable file using the value of PATH, as
																																				                           described in Section 2.9.1.1, Command Search and
																																							                        Execution.

																																										                 Special parameter 0 (see Section 2.5.2, Special
																																														                  Parameters) shall be set to the value of command_file.
																																												                  If sh is called using a synopsis form that omits
																																														                   command_file, special parameter 0 shall be set to the
																																																                    value of the first argument passed to sh from its
																																																		                     parent (for example, argv[0] for a C program), which is
																																																				                      normally a pathname used to execute the sh utility.

																																																						             command_name
																																																							                      A string assigned to special parameter 0 when executing
																																																									                       the commands in command_string.  If command_name is not
specified, special parameter 0 shall be set to the
value of the first argument passed to sh from its
parent (for example, argv[0] for a C program), which is
normally a pathname used to execute the sh utility.
command_string
A string that shall be interpreted by the shell as one
or more commands, as if the string were the argument to
the system() function defined in the System Interfaces
volume of POSIX.1‐2017. If the command_string operand
is an empty string, sh shall exit with a zero exit
status
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values shall be returned:

           0   The script to be executed consisted solely of zero or
	                  more blank lines or comments, or both.

			         1‐125   A non-interactive shell detected an error other than
				                command_file not found or executable, including but not
						               limited to syntax, redirection, or variable assignment
							                      errors.

									               126   A specified command_file could not be executed due to an
										                      [ENOEXEC] error (see Section 2.9.1.1, Command Search and
														                     Execution, item 2).

												               127   A specified command_file could not be found by a non-
													                      interactive shell.

															             Otherwise, the shell shall return the exit status of the last
command it invoked or attempted to invoke.
.SH SEE ALSO
 Section 2.9.1.1, Command Search and Execution, Chapter 2, Shell
        Command Language, cd(1p), echo(1p), exit(1p), fc(1p), pwd(1p),
	       invalid, set(1p), stty(1p), test(1p), trap(1p), umask(1p), vi(1p)

	       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 8,
	              Environment Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

		             The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2017, dup(3p), exec(1p),
			            exit(3p), fork(3p), open(3p), pipe(3p), signal(3p), system(3p),
				           ulimit(3p), umask(3p), wait(3p)
.SH AUTHORS
Dhondt Ryan
